### Case Study



What is a case study?

* A case gives you some, but not all of the facts known to the people in the situation

* You must *rearrange* facts and interpret them

* Simulates the experience of *solving* management problems  


How do case studies help you learn?

* Develop *managerial* skills 
  * Sharpen your *analytical skills*, since you must produce evidence to support your arguments
  * Hone your problem solving kills
  * Improve your ability to think and reason *rigorously* 
* Cases increase exposure
  * Cut across a range of situations
  * Learn about different industries
  * Recognizing you ma face similar problems one day 
* Class discussions
* Helps you learn how to determine what the real problem is
  * How to as the right questions
* How to not jump to conclusions 
* Creates enjoyable experience
  * Holds relevance to student's lives
  * Intellectually challenging 
  * Participant-centered learning



How to prepare a case?

1. Read the first few paragraphs, then skim the rest
   * What it the case about, and what types of information am I being asked to analyze? 
2. Read the case very carefully. <u>Underline</u>/highlight key facts and make notes in the margin as you go. 
   * What are the basic problems that need to be solved?
3. Note the key problems or issues on a pad of paper. Then go through the case again.
   * Write at least three different problem statements: One in individual human terms, one in terms of the impact, and on in financial terms.
4. Sort out the relevant causes for each problem identified. Then condense the problem statement to one sentence. 
   * Pay attention to the "root cause" of the problem. Determine what may underlie the symptoms of the problem. 
5. List 2 alternative solve the problems
   * Discuss the pros and cons, costs and benefits of each alternative. How feasible is said alternative? 
6. Make a decision and state it clearly. Develop a set of recommendations, supported by analysis.
   * Consider "what if" scenarios and discuss at least one contingency plan. 



What will you have to do in class?

* Write short "case notes" which are outlines of your case analysis for class discussion
* Prepare a case for presentations (3-5 slides)
* Write a case analysis paper



How are cases graded?

* Asking and answering the right questions
* Identification and prioritization of issues 
* Judging quality and relevance of case information
* Making and assessing necessary assumptions



How can you get the most from the case method?

1. Prepare
2. Discuss the case with others before class
3. Participate
4. Share your related experience
5. Constantly relate the topic to your life
6. Actively apply what you are learning to your own, specific, management situations
7. Take good notes during discussion
8. Use the discussion to learn about different viewpoints
9. Try to better understand your management style and improve it 